Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a specific set of codes or instructions to direct or communicate with computers.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.  The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets.
    It includes
    The compiler- A  Java compiler is a predefined program that converts the high-level, user-written code language to low-level,
                    computer-understandable, byte-code language during the compile time.
    The JVM- A JVM  processes the byte-code from the compiler and provides an output in a user-readable format.

    The Java API-  Java APIs are integrated pieces of software that come with JDKs.
                   APIs in Java provides the interface between two different applications and establish communication.




What is IDE?
A.  Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application that
    enables users to write and debug Java programs.


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. intellij, eclipse, sublime, netbeans


Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.

what is class?
A.Class are a blueprint or a set of instructions to build a specific type of object.


What is object?
A.Object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
A.the main method is the entry point of an application

Why main is static?
A.The main method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.the Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.  Path variable is used to set the path for all Java software tools like javac.exe, java.exe, javadoc.exe, and so on.
    Classpath variable is used to set the path for java classes.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.in an interface you can only declare non static methods and can implement only if static
in abstract class you can only declare and not implement abstract methods you can only implement non abstract or non static methods


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.no you cannot make an object from an interface or an abstract class you can only do that through a concrete class after extending the methods.

what is Access Specifier?
A.Access specifiers are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.OOP is Object Oriented Programming a method used for designing a program using classes and objects
    its features are
    Abstraction-Likewise in Object-oriented programming, abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details from the user,
                only the functionality will be provided
    Inheritance- Inheritance can be defined as the process where one class acquires
                 the properties (methods and fields) of another.
    Encapsulation- It is used for data hiding
    Polymorphism-  Polymorphism in Java can be defined as the ability of an object to take many forms.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.A package is a collection of classes, interfaces, and sub-packages in Java
    java.lang is imported by default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Java APIs are integrated pieces of software that come with JDKs.
  APIs in Java provides the interface between two different applications and establish communication.
    1-jdbc



Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.multiple inheritance is not supported in java for classes and also for interfaces
    because the jvm can create only one object at a time

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.f a class has multiple methods having same name but different in parameters,
    it is known as Method Overloading
    happens during compile time


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A-An exception is an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during the execution of a program
    can be handled using try catch

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.In the Java programming language, the keyword static means that the particular member belongs to a type itself,
    rather than to an instance of that type.
    a variable is declared static when it is shared among all objects at the class level
    when a method is declared static it can be called directly without object creation


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.Final keyword is a non-access specifier that is used to restrict a class, variable, and method
If we initialize a variable with the final keyword, then we cannot modify its value.
    If we declare a method as final, then it cannot be overridden by any subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.FINAL keyword is a non-access specifier that is used to restrict a class, variable, and method
    In Java, FINALLY is a block used to place important code that will be executed whether or not an exception is handled.
    FINALIZE is the method of Object class. This method is called just before an object is garbage collected


What is a constructor ?
A.A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.yes you can have a multiple constructors but with different parameters

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.default constructor is called

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.this  refers to the current object of a method or a constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object
    If we have variable with same name in parent and child class,
    then we need to use super keyword to access parent class variable.

    If we have any method with same name in parent and child class,
    then we need to use super keyword to access parent class method.

    Super keyword can be used to call the parent class constructor.
    Using super we can call default or parameterized keyword.

What is JVM stand for ?
A-Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A-The JVM is not platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
A-java version "1.8.0_311"

What is JAR stand for ?
A-JAR stands for Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A-  JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
    It is a software bundle which provides Java class libraries with necessary components to run Java code.

    JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A-  JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.
    JVM is where it's responsible for converting the Bytecode into machine specific code and
    makes java program write-once-run-anywhere.

What is compile time and run time?
A-Compile time is when the program is compiled
  Runtime is when it executes

What is heap?
A-Heap is an area of memory reserved for data that is created when a program is executed

How java manage it's memory?
A-  Java objects reside in an area called the heap.
    The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.
    When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
    During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A- The string is a Java class that is used to create an object of type String, which is a sequence of characters.
    StringBuffer is a Java class that is used to create String objects, which can be modified with thread safety.
        StringBuilder is a class that is used to create string objects, which can be modified without thread safety.

What is Singleton class?
A-A Singleton class in Java allows only one instance to be created and provides
global access to all other classes through this single object or instance.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A-  Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams.
    The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization

When to use transient variable in java?
A-  The transient keyword in Java is used to avoid serialization.
    If any object of a data structure is defined as a transient , then it will not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A-  While loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement,
    whereas do while loop will execute the statement at least once, then the condition is checked

What is Enum?
A-  An enum type is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.
    The variable must be equal to one of the values that have been predefined for it

What is Iterator?
A-An iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container, particularly lists

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A-int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store.
    On other hand Integer is an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A-The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class loading

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A-Constructor Chaining is the process of calling one constructor of a class from another constructor of the same class
or another class using the current object of the class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A-

What is JIT stands for?
A-Just-In-Time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?


What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A-  The major difference between Stack memory and heap memory is that the stack is
    used to store the order of method execution and local variables
    while the heap memory stores the objects and it uses dynamic memory allocation and de allocation.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?


what is multithreading in java?


What is the use of synchronization in Java?


What is Framework?


What are the testing Framework available in java?
A-Selenium, Serenity, JUnit, TestNG, Cucumber

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A-JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests.
TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.
JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can run parallel tests

What are the dependencies for this project?
A-  testNg
    gson
    mysql
    mongodb

what is dependency injection in java?
A-Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A-  Static binding-It takes place at compile time which is also referred to as early binding
    It takes place at runtime which is also referred to as late binding.










